1.How to compile a java file?
Ans.	Step 1:Write a program on the notepad and save it with .java (for example, Filename.java) extension.
	Step 2:Open Command Prompt.
	Step 3:Set the directory in which the .java file is saved. 
	Step 4:Use the javac Filename.java command to compile the Java program. It generates a .class file in the same folder. It also shows an error if any.
	Step 5:Use the java Filename command to run the Java program:


2.How to run a class file?
Ans.	Step 1:To compile your .java files, open Command Prompt.
	Step 2:Navigate to the folder your java file is at.
	Step 3:To compile, type javac <javaFileName>
	Step 4:After hitting enter, .class files will appear in the same folder for each .java file.
	Step 5:To run the class file, it must have a main method,java <classname>
	Step 6:The result will be displayed in the Command Prompt.


3.How to debug a java file?
Ans.	Java program can be debugged simply by right clicking on the Java class file. Select Debug As → Java Application or use the shortcut Alt + Shift + D, J instead.

4.How to set classpath?
Ans.	Set the CLASSPATH in JAVA in Windows:
	(i)Command Prompt:
		set PATH=.;C:\Program Files\Java\JDK1.6.20\bin
	(ii)GUI:
	Step 1. Select Start
	Step 2. Go to the Control Panel
	Step 3. Select System and Security
	Step 4. Select Advanced System settings
	Step 5. Click on Environment Variables
	Step 6. Click on New under System Variables
	Step 7. Add CLASSPATH as variable name and path of files as a variable value.
	Step 8. Select OK.

	Set the CLASSPATH in Eclipse:
	Step 1:In Eclipse, go to Window > Preferences > Java > Build Path > Classpath Variables.
	Step 2:Click New, enter the following information and click OK.
      		 Name: J2EE_JAR
      		 Path: The path to the JAR file of your Java EE implementation. F
	Step 3:Click New, enter the following information and click OK.
       		Name: JAVAMAIL_HOME
       		Path: The folder that contains mail.jar and activation.jar files for your Java EE implementation.
	Step 4:Click OK to save the preferences.

5.How to view current classpath?
Ans.	Step 1:Go to Advanced system settings in the control apnel.
    	Step 2:Then goto Advanced tab and click on Environment Variables.
   	Step 3:In System Variable, there is available current path.


6.How to set destination of the class file?
Ans.	Set the destination of .class file we use -d option while compiling the ” .java” file, as shown below:
		javac filename.java -d "path to store the .class file"
	For Example: 
		Source : Demo.java file in "/home/nishita/" directory
		Destination :"/home/nishita/folder" directory
		Command : javac Demo.java -d "/home/nishita/folder"

7.How to run a compiled class file?
Ans.	A class file can be run by typing "java filename" in command prompt.

8.How to check version of java running on your system?
Ans.	By typing "java -version" command in cmd.

9.How to set classpath when class files are in .jar file?
Ans.	(i)Setting classpath as a command line:
		Add single jar file in classpath
			$ set CLASSPATH=.;C:\dependency\framework.jar
		Add multiple classes to classpath
			$ set CLASSPATH=C:\dependency\*;C:\location
		
	(ii)Setting classpath as the Environment variable:
		To set CLASSPATH environment variable, find the location of user environment variables in your machine and add all paths where Jar files are stored.
			1.From the desktop, right click the Computer icon.
			2.Choose Properties from the context menu.
			3.Click the Advanced system settings link.
			4.Click Environment Variables. In the section System Variables, find the CLASSPATH environment variable and select it. Click Edit. If the CLASSPATH environment variable does not exist, click New.
			5.Add all folders separated with separator. Click Ok.Close all remaining windows by clicking OK.


